## MQTT

##### What is it?
MQTT is a publisher - subscriber protocol.

##### Super essential dictionary
- Broker: The server, takes care of the push notification task.
- Subscriber: A device/process that listens for notifications of a topic.
- Topic: A name for a channel. Can be structured hierarchically.

##### Super essential specifications
Covers the 5th to 7th layer of OSI. Depends on TCP. Has header of 2 bytes
by default*1 (network overhead).


##### What features does it provides ?

// todo: Cover the previous section's requirements
// todo: Talk about benefit of pub/sub, automatic auth and filtering
MQTT covers all requirements described at the previous section.
Also it offers the
convenience of


##### Reliability
The reliability in the MQTT is described as Quolity of Service (Qos).
MWTT supports 3 levels of QoS:
- 0: fire and forget
- 1: Resend at least one time (until the event is consumed).
- 2: Resend only one and validate that the client received the published
     event only once.

##### Topics
The MQTT topics are channels under that clients publish events and are subscribed
for listening to updates.

##### Naming:
- In general topic names are unicode characters.
- Topics can be ordered using slashes i.e. 'house/bedroom/lights'.
- wildcards can be used where subscribing to topics:
  - '+': skip one level (e.g. 'house/+/lights')
  - '#': skip _N_ levels (e.g. 'house/#')
  - '$': conventionally marks the protocol's messages.

##### Supper essential security
  - Design features:
    - The clients never communicate directly (broker is between).
    - The clients are not aware of each other.
  - Needs implementation
    - Authentication
    - Filtering



*1 HTTP headers starts at  ~200 bytes [http://dev.chromium.org/spdy/spdy-whitepaper]
